Document StatefulShortestPath(All) and StatefulShortestPath(Into) (#1)
JPryce-Aklundh/docs-cypher: modules/ROOT/pages/planning-and-tuning/operators/operators-detail.adoc

======

[[query-plan-stateful-shortest-path-into]]
== StatefulShortestPath(Into)
// StatefulShortestPath(Into)

////
[source, cypher, role=test-setup]
----
CREATE CONSTRAINT person_name_unique IF NOT EXISTS FOR (p:Person) REQUIRE (p.name) IS UNIQUE
----
////

The `StatefulShortestPath(Into)` operator finds shortest paths between two previously matched node variables.
It uses a bidirectional breadth-first search (BFS) algorithm, which performs two BFS invocations at the same time, one from the left boundary node and one from the right boundary node.
Once a node is found by both BFS invocations, which indicates that it can be reached from both boundary nodes, the algorithm successfully terminates.

> When both BFS invocations terminate without any overlap in the nodes found, then there exists no valid path between both boundary nodes.

Reviewer: Is it both, or just one? I thought that when one of the BFS exhausts all permitted paths from it's starting node, the whole algorithm terminates. If it didn't do that, wouldn't the disconnected cases perform as poorly as when it was implemented with "unidirectional" BFS?

> When both BFS invocations terminate without any overlap in the nodes found, then there exists no valid path between both boundary nodes.

Author: I think you are right. Both BFSs run at the same time. But when one terminates without finding any overlap so far, the continuation of the other can't lead to successful path. Do we want to verify this with the run-time team?

======

[[query-plan-stateful-shortest-path-into]]
== StatefulShortestPath(Into)
// StatefulShortestPath(Into)

The `StatefulShortestPath(Into)` operator finds shortest paths between two previously matched node variables.
It uses a bidirectional breath first search (BFS) algorithm, which performs two BFS invocations at the same time, one from the left boundary node and one from the right boundary node.
Once a node is found by both BFS invocations, which indicates that it can be reached from both boundary nodes, the algorithm successfully terminates.

> No valid path exists between both boundary nodes when both BFS invocations terminate without any overlap in the nodes that both invocations found.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When both BFS invocations terminate without any overlap in the nodes found, then there exists no valid path between both boundary nodes.
```

.StatefulShortestPath(Into)
======

.Query
[source, cypher]
----
PROFILE
MATCH
  (chris:Person {name: 'Chris'}),
  (stefan:Person {name: 'Stefan'})
CALL {
  WITH chris, stefan
  MATCH
    p = ALL SHORTEST (chris)(()-[]-()-[]-()){1,}(stefan)
  RETURN p
}

> RETURN p

Reviewer 2: I would suggest changing the `CREATE RANGE INDEX range_person_name FOR (p:Person) ON (p.name)` to a uniqueness constraint instead.

Like that, you hopefully will not need the `CALL`-workaround in this example.

----

.Query Plan
[role="queryplan", subs="attributes+"]
----
Planner COST

Runtime PIPELINED

> Runtime version DEV

Author: We probably want to update `DEV` to an actual version and re-run the query on that version. Which one should I use?

Reviewer 2: Looking at the other plan outputs, they use `{neo4j-version-minor}`

Author: Is there a way that I can specify that version when running a test (for example in MiscAcceptanceTest.scala)?

| |                           +----+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+------+---------+----------------+                        |           |                     |
| +NodeByLabelScan            |  7 | chris:Person                                                                                     |             14 |   14 |      15 |            376 |                    3/0 |     2.092 | Fused in Pipeline 0 |
+-----------------------------+----+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+------+---------+----------------+------------------------+-----------+---------------------+

Total database accesses: 125, total allocated memory: 24349

----

======

[[query-plan-stateful-shortest-path-all]]
== StatefulShortestPath(All)
// StatefulShortestPath(All)

The `StatefulShortestPath(All)` operator finds shortest paths from a previously matched node variable to an endpoint that was not previously matched.
It uses a breath first search algorithm.

.StatefulShortestPath(All)
======

.Query
[source, cypher]
----
PROFILE

> MATCH (chris {name: 'Chris'})

Reviewer 2: You probably want a `Person` label here?

Author: Yes, good catch. This, in combination with the index on `Person.name`, solved my issue in https://trello.com/c/eQvCFdzF/2587-optimization-opportunity-for-statefulshortestpath

CALL {
  WITH chris
  MATCH
    p = ALL SHORTEST (chris)(()-[]-()-[]-()){1,}(location:Location)
  RETURN length(p) AS pathLength, location.name AS locationName

> }

Reviewer 2: Why the subquery?

Author: I thought that it would make it more clear by explicitly saying that the query should start by matching `chris`. Also to make it more in line with the example for `INTO`. 
However, the example for `INTO` now doesn't need a `CALL` subquery due to the new `UNIQUE` index. Therefore we can remove the `CALL` subqueries in both cases now
